README.md, before:

# <p align='center'> Reverse Engineering Reference Manual (beta) </p>

* [.general](contents/general/general.md)
  * [Miscellaneous](contents/general/Miscellaneous.md)
* [.tools](contents/tools/tools.md)
  * [IDA Tips](contents/tools/IDA_Tips.md)
  * [GDB Tips](contents/tools/GDB_Tips.md)
* [.instruction-sets](contents/instruction-sets/instruction-sets.md)
  * [x86](contents/instruction-sets/x86.md)
  * [x86-64](contents/instruction-sets/x86-64.md)
  * [ARM](contents/instruction-sets/ARM.md)
* [.languages](contents/languages/languages.md)
  * [C++ Reversing](contents/languages/C++_Reversing.md)
  * [Python Reversing](contents/languages/Python_Reversing.md)
* [.file-formats](contents/file-formats/file-formats.md)
  * [ELF Files](contents/file-formats/ELF_Files.md)
  * [PE Files](contents/file-formats/PE_Files.md)
* [.anti-analysis](contents/anti-analysis/anti-analysis.md)
  * [Obfuscation](contents/anti-analysis/Obfuscation.md)
  * [Anti-Disassembly](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Disassembly.md)
  * [Anti-Debugging](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Debugging.md)
  * [Anti-Emulation](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Emulation.md)
* [.encodings](contents/encodings/encodings.md)
  * [String Encoding](contents/encodings/String_Encoding.md)
  * [Data Encoding](contents/encodings/Data_Encoding.md)
---

__NOTE(1)__: if you have any question or need further clarification on the content, feel free to create an issue and ask away!

__NOTE(2)__: beta? Yes. In the coming months I'm planning on adding more pictures and diagrams to the current content. Plans to add more sections will continue after revamping it.

__NOTE(3)__: images found in this reference manual are a mix of ones I created myself and ones I found on the internet. All images and their respective sources can be found under the images directory.

Commit message:

Add CI to check broken links

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/yellowbyte/reverse-engineering-reference-manual.svg?branch=ci)](https://travis-ci.org/yellowbyte/reverse-engineering-reference-manual)

# <p align='center'> Reverse Engineering Reference Manual (beta) </p>

* [.general](contents/general/general.md)
  * [Miscellaneous](contents/general/Miscellaneous.md)
* [.tools](contents/tools/tools.md)
  * [IDA Tips](contents/tools/IDA_Tips.md)
  * [GDB Tips](contents/tools/GDB_Tips.md)
* [.instruction-sets](contents/instruction-sets/instruction-sets.md)
  * [x86](contents/instruction-sets/x86.md)
  * [x86-64](contents/instruction-sets/x86-64.md)
  * [ARM](contents/instruction-sets/ARM.md)
* [.languages](contents/languages/languages.md)
  * [C++ Reversing](contents/languages/C++_Reversing.md)
  * [Python Reversing](contents/languages/Python_Reversing.md)
* [.file-formats](contents/file-formats/file-formats.md)
  * [ELF Files](contents/file-formats/ELF_Files.md)
  * [PE Files](contents/file-formats/PE_Files.md)
* [.anti-analysis](contents/anti-analysis/anti-analysis.md)
  * [Obfuscation](contents/anti-analysis/Obfuscation.md)
  * [Anti-Disassembly](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Disassembly.md)
  * [Anti-Debugging](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Debugging.md)
  * [Anti-Emulation](contents/anti-analysis/Anti-Emulation.md)
* [.encodings](contents/encodings/encodings.md)
  * [String Encoding](contents/encodings/String_Encoding.md)
  * [Data Encoding](contents/encodings/Data_Encoding.md)
---

__NOTE(1)__: if you have any question or need further clarification on the content, feel free to create an issue and ask away!

__NOTE(2)__: beta? Yes. In the coming months I'm planning on adding more pictures and diagrams to the current content. Plans to add more sections will continue after revamping it.

__NOTE(3)__: CI? We all hate broken links. The CI is my attempt to make sure all the external links in this repository are still working. And if any of them is broken, I can easily pinpoint which one and swiftly update it with another relevant link.
