contents/anti-analysis/anti-analysis.md, before:

## *<p align='center'>.anti-analysis</p>*

---
### *<p align='center'> section overview </p>*
---
* [Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md)
  * [Definition](Obfuscation.md#-definition-)
  * [Original Entry Point (OEP) Hiding](Obfuscation.md#-original-entry-point-oep-hiding-)
  * [Functions In/Out-Lining](Obfuscation.md-functions-inout-lining-)
  * [Opcode Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-opcode-obfuscation-)
  * [Dynamically Computed Target Addresses](Obfuscation.md#-dynamically-computed-target-addresses-)
  * [Dead Code Insertion](Obfuscation.md#-dead-code-insertion-)
  * [Junk Code Insertion](Obfuscation.md#-junk-code-insertion-)
  * [Pattern-Based Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-pattern-based-obfuscation-)
  * [Destruction of Sequential and Temporal Locality (Spaghetti Code)](Obfuscation.md#-destruction-of-sequential-and-temporal-locality-spaghetti-code-)
  * [Opaque Predicate](Obfuscation.md#-opaque-predicate-)
  * [Control-Flow Graph Flattening](Obfuscation.md#-control-flow-graph-flattening-)
  * [Irreducible Programs](Obfuscation.md#-irreducible-programs-)
  * [Constant Unfolding](Obfuscation.md#-constant-unfolding-)
  * [Arithmetic Substitution via Identities](Obfuscation.md#-arithmetic-substitution-via-identities-)
  * [Array-Based Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-array-based-obfuscation-)
  * [Imported Function Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-imported-function-obfuscation-)
* [Anti-Disassembly](Anti-Disassembly.md)
  * [Disassembly Techniques](Anti-Disassembly.md#-disassembly-technique-)
  * [Disassembly Desynchronization](Anti-Disassembly.md#-disassembly-desynchronization-)
  * [Function Pointer Problem](Anti-Disassembly.md#-function-pointer-problem-)
  * [Processer-Based Control Indirection](Anti-Disassembly.md#-processer-based-control-indirection-)
  * [Thwarting Stack-Frame Analysis](Anti-Disassembly.md#-thwarting-stack-frame-analysis-)
  * [Parser Differential Attack (File Format Hacks)](Anti-Disassembly.md#-parser-differential-attack-file-format-hacks-)
* [Anti-Debugging](Anti-Debugging.md)
  * [Using Functions from Dynamically Linked Libraries to Detect Debugger's Presence](Anti-Debugging.md#-using-functions-from-dynamically-linked-libraries-to-detect-debuggers-presence-)
  * [Using Flags within the PEB structure to Detect Debugger's Presence (Windows)](Anti-Debugging.md#-using-flags-within-the-peb-structure-to-detect-debuggers-presence-windows-)
  * [Breakpoint Detection](Anti-Debugging.md#-breakpoint-detection-)
  * [Interrupts](Anti-Debugging.md#-interrupts-)
  * [Timing Checks](Anti-Debugging.md#-timing-checks-)
  * [Detection Before main()](Anti-Debugging.md#-detection-before-main-)
* [Anti-Emulation](Anti-Emulation.md)
  * [Definition](Anti-Emulation.md#-definition-)
  * [Detection through Syscall](Anti-Emulation.md#-detection-through-syscall-)
  * [CPU Inconsistencies Detection](Anti-Emulation.md#-cpu-inconsistencies-detection-)
  * [Timing Delays](Anti-Emulation.md#-timing-delays-)
  * [Number of Cores](Anti-Emulation.md#-number-of-cores-)
* [Bonus](Bonus.md)
  * [Quote To Remember](Bonus.md#-quote-to-remember-)

---
### *<p align='center'> further readings </p>*
---
* [The "Ultimate" Anti-Debugging Reference](http://anti-reversing.com/Downloads/Anti-Reversing/The_Ultimate_Anti-Reversing_Reference.pdf): a comprehensive Windows anti-debugging guide by Peter Ferrie 

#
<p align='center'><a href="/contents/file-formats/file-formats.md">.file-formats</a> <~ <a href="/README.md#table-of-contents">RERM</a> ~> <a href="/contents/encodings/encodings.md">.encodings</a></p>

Commit message:

Add descriptions to each section
plus small grammatical changes throughout

contents/anti-analysis/anti-analysis.md, after:

## *<p align='center'>.anti-analysis</p>*

__Reversing Is Easy?__
Aside from that a [compiler will bloat up the size of the compiled code](https://twitter.com/MalwareTechBlog/status/959925068196294656), reverse engineering for the purpose of understanding how a program works is really not a hard task. Although the [x86](https://github.com/yellowbyte/reverse-engineering-reference-manual/blob/master/contents/instruction-sets/x86.md) [instruction set](https://github.com/yellowbyte/reverse-engineering-reference-manual/blob/master/contents/instruction-sets/instruction-sets.md) is enormous and complex, a compiler will usually prefer only a subset of the x86 instruction set to translate the source code to. As a result, after reversing for a while, you will start to notice assembly patterns shared across different binaries' disassembly. Those patterns allow you to relate the assembly back to a higher constructs such as if statement, while loop, function call, etc... By doing so, you no longer are looking at the disassembly instruction-by-instruction, but rather block-of-instructions by block-of-instructions, and you are now also able to see how the blocks correlate with each other. Once you reach this state of analysis, the program is yours.

__Sorry, We Can't Make It That Easy For You__
Obviously there are people that don't want their programs to be analyzed. When that is the case, they will use various techniques to hinder reversing of their software. The well-known anti-analysis techniques can be seen below but there are also many more undocumented or less-known ones. The good news is: no matter how hard one tried to obfuscate a program, there is no guarantee that it cannot be de-obfuscated. It is only a matter of time before a protected program is taken apart. Furthermore, unless the program is a crackme or a reversing challenge, one can't simply try to make the program as hard to reverse as possible since program performance also needs to be taken into consideration. Depending on the anti-analysis techniques and on what portion of the code is hardened, the performance difference could be fairly noticeably.    

---
### *<p align='center'> section overview </p>*
---
* [Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md)
  * [Definition](Obfuscation.md#-definition-)
  * [Original Entry Point (OEP) Hiding](Obfuscation.md#-original-entry-point-oep-hiding-)
  * [Functions In/Out-Lining](Obfuscation.md-functions-inout-lining-)
  * [Opcode Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-opcode-obfuscation-)
  * [Dynamically Computed Target Addresses](Obfuscation.md#-dynamically-computed-target-addresses-)
  * [Dead Code Insertion](Obfuscation.md#-dead-code-insertion-)
  * [Junk Code Insertion](Obfuscation.md#-junk-code-insertion-)
  * [Pattern-Based Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-pattern-based-obfuscation-)
  * [Destruction of Sequential and Temporal Locality (Spaghetti Code)](Obfuscation.md#-destruction-of-sequential-and-temporal-locality-spaghetti-code-)
  * [Opaque Predicate](Obfuscation.md#-opaque-predicate-)
  * [Control-Flow Graph Flattening](Obfuscation.md#-control-flow-graph-flattening-)
  * [Irreducible Programs](Obfuscation.md#-irreducible-programs-)
  * [Constant Unfolding](Obfuscation.md#-constant-unfolding-)
  * [Arithmetic Substitution via Identities](Obfuscation.md#-arithmetic-substitution-via-identities-)
  * [Array-Based Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-array-based-obfuscation-)
  * [Imported Function Obfuscation](Obfuscation.md#-imported-function-obfuscation-)
* [Anti-Disassembly](Anti-Disassembly.md)
  * [Disassembly Techniques](Anti-Disassembly.md#-disassembly-technique-)
  * [Disassembly Desynchronization](Anti-Disassembly.md#-disassembly-desynchronization-)
  * [Function Pointer Problem](Anti-Disassembly.md#-function-pointer-problem-)
  * [Processer-Based Control Indirection](Anti-Disassembly.md#-processer-based-control-indirection-)
  * [Thwarting Stack-Frame Analysis](Anti-Disassembly.md#-thwarting-stack-frame-analysis-)
  * [Parser Differential Attack (File Format Hacks)](Anti-Disassembly.md#-parser-differential-attack-file-format-hacks-)
* [Anti-Debugging](Anti-Debugging.md)
  * [Using Functions from Dynamically Linked Libraries to Detect Debugger's Presence](Anti-Debugging.md#-using-functions-from-dynamically-linked-libraries-to-detect-debuggers-presence-)
  * [Using Flags within the PEB structure to Detect Debugger's Presence (Windows)](Anti-Debugging.md#-using-flags-within-the-peb-structure-to-detect-debuggers-presence-windows-)
  * [Breakpoint Detection](Anti-Debugging.md#-breakpoint-detection-)
  * [Interrupts](Anti-Debugging.md#-interrupts-)
  * [Timing Checks](Anti-Debugging.md#-timing-checks-)
  * [Detection Before main()](Anti-Debugging.md#-detection-before-main-)
* [Anti-Emulation](Anti-Emulation.md)
  * [Definition](Anti-Emulation.md#-definition-)
  * [Detection through Syscall](Anti-Emulation.md#-detection-through-syscall-)
  * [CPU Inconsistencies Detection](Anti-Emulation.md#-cpu-inconsistencies-detection-)
  * [Timing Delays](Anti-Emulation.md#-timing-delays-)
  * [Number of Cores](Anti-Emulation.md#-number-of-cores-)
* [Bonus](Bonus.md)
  * [Quote To Remember](Bonus.md#-quote-to-remember-)

---
### *<p align='center'> further readings </p>*
---
* [The "Ultimate" Anti-Debugging Reference](http://anti-reversing.com/Downloads/Anti-Reversing/The_Ultimate_Anti-Reversing_Reference.pdf): a comprehensive Windows anti-debugging guide by Peter Ferrie 
* [Al-Khaser](https://github.com/LordNoteworthy/al-khaser): a sample application that performs different types of common anti-analysis tricks

#
<p align='center'><a href="/contents/file-formats/file-formats.md">.file-formats</a> <~ <a href="/README.md#table-of-contents">RERM</a> ~> <a href="/contents/encodings/encodings.md">.encodings</a></p>
